E X H A U S T E D
You need to sleep for at least one Shift each
day. After one day without sufficient sleep,
you become Exhausted. Being Exhausted has
several effects:
T You cannot relieve Stress.
T You must make a STAMINA roll each day (the
GM decides when), with a negative modification equal to the number of days spent
without decent sleep. If the roll fails, you
collapse and sleep for one Shift.
T As soon as you have slept for at least one
Shift, you are no longer Exhausted.


E X P L O S I O N S
The force of an explosion is measured in Blast
Power. For each person within SHORT range of
the blast when the detonation occurs, roll a
number of Base Dice equal to the Blast Power.
For every SUC rolled, the victim suffers one
point of damage. The roll cannot be pushed.
Victims at ENGAGED range from the detonation
suffer one extra point of damage.
EFFECT RADIUS: Powerful charges, with
a Blast Power of 7 or more, can harm people
even at MEDIUM range. The Blast Power is then
reduced by 6. If there are many people within
MEDIUM range of the blast, the GM can simplify
the process by rolling once and applying the
result to all victims.

F I R E
A fire is measured in Intensity. A typical fire
has Intensity 8. When exposed to fire, roll a
number of Base Dice equal to the Intensity.
For every SUC rolled, you suffer one point of
damage. Armor can protect you.
If you take damage, you catch fire and
continue to burn and suffer another attack at
the start of each new Round. The Intensity increases by one each Round. As soon as a fire
attack inflicts no damage, the fire goes out by
itself. You, or a friend at ENGAGED range, can
put out the fire with a successful MOBILITY roll
(slow action).
If you are Broken by fire damage, or suffer
fire damage when already Broken, you must
make a Death Roll every Round until you die
or you are saved by a MEDICAL AID roll.


S U F F O C A T I O N
If your supply of air runs out (see page
34), you won’t have long to live. You’ll start
breathing in your own exhaled air, building up
dangerous levels of carbon dioxide that will
eventually kill you.
After your air supply runs out, you must
make a STAMINA roll every Turn or after every
strenuous activity (like a roll for CLOSE COMBAT
or MOBILITY). The first roll is unmodified, the
second roll gets a –1 modification, the third
gets –2, and so on. A failed roll means you
drop directly to zero Health and must make a
Death Roll every Round until you die or you
enter a pressurized area.


T O O L S

WATATSUMI DV-303 BOLT GUN: Read
more under Weapons above. When used as a tool,
the bolt gun gives a +2 modification to HEAVY MACHINERY in relevant situations.
damage 3, range short, armor-piercing, single-round

MECHANICAL CUTTING TORCH: Read
more under Weapons above. When used as a
tool, the cutting torch gives a +2 modification to
HEAVY MACHINERY in relevant situations. The cutting
torch consumes a lot of electricity, and you need
to make a Power Supply roll after every use (see
page 36). Its battery has a Power Supply level of 5
when fully charged.
damage 3, armor piercing

MAINTENANCE JACK: A common tool used
to open unpowered airlocks and divert power to
or from electrical junction boxes. Gives a +1 modification to HEAVY MACHINERY in relevant situations



P H A R M A C E U T I C A L S
There are a number of prescribed and under the
table drugs that are common on the Frontier.

NEVERSLEEP PILLS: Fast acting supplement
that keeps you going well past your bedtime. Excessive use can cause stroke or heart attack. Each
dose increases your STRESS LEVEL one step but removes the need for sleep for one day. During that
day, you cannot relieve stress (see page 104).

HYDR8TION: An electrolyte solution that counteracts the dehydrating effects of hypersleep (see
page 151), Hydr8tion is one of the few pharmaceuticals of the space age with no side effects.

NAPROLEVE: An injectable instant pain
reliever for all strains, stresses, and irritations.
Recommended for use during any self-inflicted
cesarean performed to extract an unconventional
fetus from your womb. Immediately reduces the
patient’s STRESS LEVEL to zero. Warning: an overdose of Naproleve can have an intoxicating effect.
Each dose beyond the first in the same Shift gives
a –1 modification to all AGILITY-based skill rolls
until the end of the Shift.